Pushkin.
[Music]
>> Previously on revisionist history,
>> people had an idea of what had happened.
When a person gets something in their
mind,
you know, they it's kind of hard to
change.
Can't remember how soon they figured out
that he that you know the preacher had
finished the job and all that but it was
you know it was pretty obvious pretty
quick.
>> Senate does it the timing makes a lot
more sense. He shows up after they've
left stabs calls.
>> Stabs and calls.
I mean, there's no sense in even having
a jury if you if you're going to be able
to overturn the jury. If a judge can
overturn the jury,
[Music]
>> I don't know how much uh Tom Heftlin
explained to you, but um
>> he just told me you were okay to talk
to.
>> Oh, that's very kind. and and we're just
we're very uh John Parker is very very
dear to me and I just very protective. I
wouldn't want to do anything to hurt or
his family.
>> Yeah.
>> But other than that, I'm willing to
talk.
>> This is Tom Perry Jr. big guy beard from
Demopoulos, Alabama, who on the third
Saturday of every month for years and
years would spend a day on death row in
Donaldson Prison just outside
Birmingham. I called him up because John
Forest Parker's lawyer told me, "If you
want to understand something more about
Parker, talk to Tom Perry."
>> I want to tell you something, Malcolm.
Then I'm I don't mean to take over your
interview now, but I'm no I'm no really
dogoodter. I'm just an old guy that's
fallen short every day. I just happened
to the Lord uses me in in the
penitentiary setting because of my my
shortcomings. If that makes sense. Mhm.
Mhm. Now, you're I can't resist. Almost
everyone I've been talking to for the
story so far is Church of Christ.
>> I am not.
>> And you're Methodist. What? I don't
understand why you're not Church of
Christ. What's going on?
>> I don't know. I'm just
Maybe I like I like the cocktail too
much for the Church of Christ. I don't.
In this episode, I'm going to tell you
about what happened to John Forest
Parker after he was sentenced to death
and give you a meditation on a phrase
from the Jesuit priest James Kenan that
I have come back to many times. Sin is a
failure to bother to care.
This is the story of someone who
bothered to care and someone else who
couldn't be bothered at all.
My name is Malcolm Glabwell. This is the
Alabama murders, episode 4, the
protocol.
[Music]
In the time that you were doing ministry
at Donaldson, how many men that you were
working with got executed?
>> I believe
I've been with 13.
Maybe maybe 12.
>> Yeah. Perry got involved working with
people on death row through a mentor of
his, Ben Sherid.
>> Like when I first went back, Big Ben
Sher says, "Now look, if you come back
here and you start coming and these guys
ask you to go all the way with them, you
got to be willing to go. And if you're
not, I understand, but don't come back
here." And I said, "What's all the way?"
And he said, "Well, you know, be if
their executions, if they have living
family, they don't necessarily want
their family to watch them die or to be
their only member, but that we need
somebody there that loves them. And if
they ask you to be with them, you need
you can't you need to be willing to go.
And if you're not, just don't come." And
at the time, we hadn't had an execution
in Alabama in a very long time. And I
said, "Sure." Well, you know, I didn't
know what I was getting into, but I
mean,
and like when I say at 12 or 13,
Malcolm, 10 or 11 of them, I was praying
with their families at the time they
died.
>> What? That's a hard thing to go through.
Lose 13 men.
>> You um
like I want I want to tell you the
honest to goodness truth. I don't want
to we jokey call it you know stupid
Christians but uh I don't my one little
witness I'll give you is he gives you
the power
now when it's over I I usually have need
somebody to drive me home but up until
then you just have the strength to do it
but it it's so hard you wouldn't believe
and it affects you
>> John Flores Parker was one of those 13
and maybe the one closest to his heart.
>> And uh man, I love John Parker. I sure
do miss him. That's the only
reservations I have about doing this is,
you know, at 15 years. It kind of makes
me miss him a little more.
>> The jury in John Parker's trial voted 10
to2 for life without parole. But under
Alabama law at the time, a judge was
allowed to override a jury's
recommendation. And this is what the
judge Ingging Johnson did. Johnson
sentenced Parker to death in 1989. He
was remanded to Donaldson prison and
placed on death row, 24 cells in two
blocks of 12. And there, Perry began to
visit him, making the 2-hour drive from
Demopoulos to Donaldson. Perry would go
with his friend Ben Sherid. A handful of
others would join them. When Perry first
met Parker, Parker wouldn't come out of
his cell. Sometimes we would take food
and if we took food, John would come out
to eat. You know, we had really good
food. But then his first chance, he'd go
back to his cell. But if we didn't have
food, John didn't come out. Well, of
course, we learned as I developed my
relationship with him, you know,
Reverend Senate is who hired them. So he
just when you said religion and
preachers and he wanted nothing to do
with it cuz you know he he he still
equated that with Reverend Senate.
>> Then Perry met Parker's mother. He told
her that her son wouldn't leave his
cell.
>> She said he doesn't come out. I said no
ma'am. She said next month we went every
month. She said you tell him his mama
said he better come out. So I went and
told him and he said I'll be there and
he never missed. The next month he never
missed. and he and I became very very
good friends and he confided a lot in
me. So
>> what was he like?
>> Um
now you understand Malcolm
I do believe that the good Lord changes
people. John was a very intelligent um
very well readck
of a nice guy
um just a wonderful person. He's just
the kind of guy you wanted to hang out
with. And he told me, he said, "You
know, since I've come in here, I've
learned to read better and write better
and do things better."
>> In prison, he was sober and off drugs
for the first time since he was 12.
>> Spoke very open with openly with me
about his crime. And and I mean, I
remember one thing he said. Um,
and he he he was adamant
with me. Uh this was very difficult for
John because he knew they were going to
give him last words at his execution.
And he said, "You know, I didn't kill
Miss Stenn." I said, "Yeah, I know
that." He said, "But I was involved."
And and that's a horrible thing I was
involved in. And he said, "I've been in
prison probably not long enough." But he
said, "But I didn't kill her." And he
said, "We snapped out of it. you know,
they they told us that, you know,
Reverend Sinnate came home and killed
her. I don't know. Are you aware of
that?
>> And he um
and he said, "Well, I mean, he said, I
remember hitting her and it was like a
light bulb went off like what in the
hell are you doing?" And and he said,
"But that was horrible." And I I I'm not
sure I've been in prison long enough.
>> Yeah. And you said,
was your were you was the was the
ministry part of your visiting explicit
or how much of how much of this were you
trying to bring the message of Jesus to
these men or
>> it was that was that was absolutely
central. But you got to understand, I
realized quickly
that our ministry,
more important than any words,
was a ministry of presence. The fact
that you showed up every time that
prison would let you on the third
Saturday, we'd go and they'd let us stay
two or three hours,
but on twice a year, we would stay for
three, we'd go in on a uh Thursday
evening. Well, I'll go in on Friday
morning, stay all day, and then go in
Saturday, stay all day, and go in
Sundays. That's called a three-day
weekend.
>> And we would do that twice a year.
>> Tom, you this is a commitment.
>> It was a tremendous commitment. But I
talked to my wife about it. I had young
children at the time, and my wife says,
you know, look, I have to say it makes
you a better person, a better dad, a
better husband.
go forward.
>> Their visits went on for 23 years as
Parker's appeals wound their way through
the legal system. Finally, his execution
date was set. 6 p.m. June 10th, 2010.
Parker was moved to Hullman Prison in
Atmore in the far south of the state
near Mobile. That's where the state's
execution chamber is. He was put in a
special holding cell in the days leading
up to his execution.
He filed two last appeals in his final
week to the Alabama Supreme Court and
then the US Supreme Court. Both failed.
On his last day, he skipped breakfast
but chose a dinner of fried fish, French
fries, and iced tea. He gave his mother
his gold watch, a mirror, seven stamps,
and a box of pictures. He gave his two
nephews his belt and his wallet.
He died by lethal injection at 6:41 p.m.
Tom Perry was there with him.
And um and then, you know, he was
finally gone. But then
after that, I have to I get back on that
van and I go back to the hotel where my
the other people
um had been in there praying with his
family. And I have to go in and tell
him, you know, John's gone. It was
peaceful. He didn't appear to suffer.
>> He didn't appear to suffer.
We'll be right back.
[Music]
To understand the particulars of John
Parker's execution, you have to go back
to 1977 in Oklahoma City. In the mid70s,
the Supreme Court had just lifted a long
moratorum on capital punishment. The
court had been concerned that existing
methods like the electric chair violated
the constitutional prohibition against
cruel and unusual punishment. Watching
someone die on the electric chair was
like watching a horror movie. Public
scrutiny was high. The court said that
states could only bring back the death
penalty if they found a more socially
acceptable and legally rigorous way of
applying it.
So at that point
uh there were several things going on.
First of all, there were journalists who
were threatening to litigate so that
they could see the next execution. And
Oklahoma and other states such as Texas
were very concerned about that. They
thought the these executions would be
videotaped and displayed to the world.
This is Deborah Deno who teaches law at
Forom University in New York City and is
one of the country's leading legal
experts on capital punishment.
>> Number two, Ronald Reagan, then Governor
Ronald Reagan a few years earlier
had sort of made a pronouncement of why
don't we just execute inmates the way we
put horses down.
>> In case you're wondering, this is what
Reagan said. Being a former farmer and
horse raiser, I know what it's like to
try to eliminate an injured horse by
shooting him. Now you call the
veterinarian and the vet gives it a shot
and the horse goes to sleep. That's it.
>> You know, I think there was a pressure
to have a method that looked more humane
than electrocution and lethal gas. Those
were the pressures that was on that was
on this state. So from the beginning,
you know, these are states terrified of
journalists being able to videotape
what's happening. So they're concern
with what this looks like to the world.
>> That's right. The perception is what?
Yeah. Yes. Absolutely.
>> So Oklahoma City, 1977,
a state senator named Bill Weisman takes
up the court's challenge. He wants to
find a way to make capital punishment
more humane. And one day he gets a call
from the Oklahoma State Medical
Examiner, AJ Chapman, who has heard
about Wiseman's crusade and has an idea.
He gives Wiseman a rough outline for
what would come to be known as lethal
injection. Two drugs in sequence. First,
a sedative, like a barbituate, to put
the prisoner to sleep. Then a paralytic,
something to immobilize them. Later,
Chapman added a third drug, potassium
chloride, which is the main ingredient
in chemical fertilizer and which in
elevated doses causes hyperc calmia,
which is like flipping the power switch
on your heart. Wiseman took Chapman's
idea and put it before the Oklahoma
State Legislature. It passed by an
overwhelming margin. I'm reading now
from an editorial in the Vista, the
student newspaper at Central State
University in Oklahoma. Lethal injection
is not only less traumatic on the
prisoner, but it would also be easier on
witnesses, for they would not have to
endure the grizzly sight of roasting
flesh, bulging eyeballs, or squirting
blood.
But Chapman's protocol was never tested.
I mean, how could you test it? You're
trying to kill someone. Everyone you
would experiment on would die. As a
result, no one really knew how it
worked. In his memoirs published years
later, Chapman argued that knowing the
precise method of action didn't matter
since, quote, "The properties of the
drugs were extremely wellnown." The
three drug combination was just a
variation on a protocol that was being
used for anesthesia every day in
hospitals all around the world.
[Music]
But of course, that isn't quite true, is
it? It's not the same procedure that's
used for medical anesthesia. Because the
intention of medical anesthesia is to
keep the patient alive, and the
intention of lethal injection is to give
those same drugs in doses so large that
the patient dies.
That's actually totally different.
Did Chapman, how much thought did he put
into this three drug protocol?
>> You know, I mean, that's a question for
him. I do know that they came up with
this in the course of an afternoon.
>> We reached out to Chapman for an
interview, but he declined to talk to
us. The Oklahoma protocol would become
the method of choice in 30 other
American states. It's even with a minor
variation what countries like Canada use
today for youth in Asia.
But how exactly does it work?
I know this seems like a pedantic point,
but it is the settled position of the
United States, in fact of most of the
world, that a mark of a civilized
society is that its punishment is
humane. You can't torture people. Even
if you've decided to kill a prisoner,
you have to do it the right way. So once
again, how does lethal injection kill
people?
>> So I was given a stack of autopsies of
prisoners executed in here in the state
of Georgia.
>> Joel Zivet, an anesthesiologist at Emery
University.
>> In Georgia, there's an automatic autopsy
that was uh that's performed on these
prisoners. Interestingly, by the way,
the cause of death that's written on the
death certificate is homicide.
Because he's an anesthesiologist and
lethal injection is basically the
homicidal version of anesthesiology.
Zivet was approached by a group of
lawyers who had a client on death row.
They had a technical question. Could he
tell from looking at the blood work of
executed prisoners whether they were
conscious at the point of death? The
operating assumption behind lethal
injection was that they were
unconscious, that they would be fully
anesthetized when the potassium chloride
hit their heart. But did we know that
for a fact? So I I just I read the
autopsy, read the first autopsy and kind
of was going through it and and saw this
finding that was surprising, which was
that uh in this first one that I read
that the lungs were what's called heavy
This had nothing to do with the question
he had been asked to answer. It was
completely unexpected.
>> As part of an autopsy, the lungs are
removed from the body and just plopped
on a scale. And all these lungs were
heavy.
Why were they heavy? They were heavy
because they were full of of bloody
frothy fluid. Um, and this bloody frothy
fluid could not have gotten into the
lungs after death.
If you're dead, your heart has stopped
working. So, there's no way for fluid to
get pumped into your lungs. It had to
have happened while the prisoner was
still alive.
And what was assumed, I think, by me and
others, I hadn't really thought about
it, was that the body would be
essentially pristine. You know, there
wouldn't be this kind of uh destruction
of of organs within the body. But when I
went through the whole list, almost 80%
of the time, so eight out of 10 times,
there was this finding of this frothy,
bloody fluid. So you could cut into the
the windpipe and the fluid would be just
frothing right in there without being,
pardon me, too graphic. So the question
then was how did it get in there? I
conferred with a pathologist colleague
of mine. And we kind of puzzled over
this for a while and it occurred to us
that you know what we think what I think
is that it's actually the way the
pentabarbatital is prepared.
Pentabarbatital is the first of the
drugs used in the fatal injection
protocol. It's the seditive and it has a
high pH.
This is sort of basic chemistry. The pH
scale goes from 1 to 14. 7 is neutral.
The other thing important to know about
the pH scale is that it's a log scale.
So it means that every time you move one
number, you're going up by a factor of
10. Um, you know, for a reference, uh,
the richtor scale of earthquakes is also
a log scale. That's why an earthquake of
4 and a half, you know, you kind of, you
know, will maybe shuffle the ground
underneath you, but an earthquake of 8
and 1/2 will split the world in half. So
it's a huge powerful difference.
The body's normal pH is between 7.35
and 7.45.
If you drop below 7 or rise above 8,
you'll probably die. The pH of
pentabarbatital is between 9 and 11.
Now, when pentabarbatital is used in
ordinary medicine, this fact doesn't
matter that much. The dose is pretty
small. It burns a little, but the body
compensates.
But now imagine giving 10 times that
quantity and pushing it into a small
vein. It travels rapidly to the heart
where the heart pumps it immediately
into the lungs and it tears the lungs
apart. Basically they get burned from
the inside and then the separation of
air and blood. Uh there's a very fine
layer of tissue there that gets
destroyed and the blood just pours into
the lungs. Um, and I'm sorry as I'm
saying this, it's awful. And this is
what this is how lethal injection
actually kills you. It kills you by
burning your lungs up. And you're also
paralyzed. So, you can't complain that
this is happening. And then to finish
you off, of course, you know, you're
probably begging for the potassium at
that point because that finally stops
your heart and and stops this process.
But in the meantime, you know, this has
go been gone on for a few minutes.
So the last thing that you know you may
know is that you're on fire from the
inside and the blood is filling up your
lungs as you die.
Is this too graphic? Of course it is.
But that's the point. Because the reason
lethal injections started in the first
place was that even the proponents of
the death penalty were eager to find a
method that was humane that didn't
involve fixing metal plates to someone's
head and frying their brains with a jolt
of electricity. And Zivot's point is
that this is not actually more humane.
It just looks that way. Death penalty
advocates were trying to satisfy the
constitutional prohibition against cruel
and unusual punishment. But their
innovation only spared the suffering of
the witnesses to an execution, not the
subject of the execution. The whole
thing was an illusion. But even that's
not the issue. The real issue is that
the lethal injection protocol was dreamt
up on the back of an envelope. And until
Joel Zeit came along by accident 50
years later, none of the people who
championed lethal injection could get
around to wondering just how their
preferred method worked. And it's not
like the evidence wasn't available.
In many states, there's an autopsy on
everyone who's executed. The autopsies
were just sitting there in a drawer
somewhere, hundreds of them. And in
almost every case, they were
characterized by the same inexplicable
finding.
Here's what I don't understand. Nobody
noticed this till you.
Apparently not. Does it Isn't that
astonishing? Um astonishing.
Well, I I don't know. I mean, I guess
so. You know, I guess it's astonishing,
but you know what? What? You have to be
you have to be curious I suppose or care
or or um I mean what's astonishing to me
is the fact that it was noticed every
time by pathologists.
No one said anything. It's not like a
pathologist said wow look at this
finding and brought it to that I'm aware
of. Like when I first had the in my job
as an anesthesiologist intensivist I
look at autopsies but I don't you know
it's not I don't make a living at
autopsies. So to be sure that I was
seeing what I thought I was seeing, I
sent it to my a colleague of mine, Mark
Edgar, who's a pathologist.
And I said, "Look, I've I've got this
list. I'm not telling you what this is,
okay? Just tell me what you see. You
know, what do you see?" And and he came
back and said, "Well, all these, you
know, all these heavy lungs, like
there's all this pulmonary edema, like
what what is that?" Like he saw it
immediately without prompture. like
belief is evidence-free, right? So the
people who believe this, you know, were
immune to evidence or immune to, you
know, I don't know, an impartial
appraisal. So, and and I was surprised.
I was I just didn't think of it. You
know, it's like the failure of
imagination where you just couldn't
imagine it. But now that it's been seen,
of course, you can't unsee it.
Zivet wrote an academic article
describing his findings, thinking he had
to share what he found with the world. I
I've had trouble getting this published.
So, it's now available as something
called a preprint.
>> So, uh it's easy to find as a preprint.
Uh and uh it goes over this. Um I
certainly
>> Why Why have you had trouble getting it
published?
>> Because people don't want to publish it.
you know, it's like uh it's something
that I can't place, you know, it's it's
so I don't know, grizzly, unusual that
to put it in the medical journal, you
know, it just doesn't can't seem to find
the journal for it.
We are now at the second stage of the
failure cascade, indifference.
We'll be right back.
Let us tell the story of John Parker's
execution a second time. Tom Perry was
there, remember? He pledged that he was
willing to go all the way. execution
day, you know, we started we we went in
early that I think John was executed
around 6,
but we go in
and it's just a good day.
John's family was close to us. We tell
the family anytime you need a minute and
you don't want us here, it's probably
about five or six of us. I think they
limit the room to 15 people on the
Vistic. We call it the visting yard, but
it's just a little room. In fact, my
Christian community airond conditioned
and put in new chairs because it was so
uncomfortable. Was these big metal
picnic tables with these little round
metal benches that were just tortured.
We bought some chairs and tables and and
put air conditioning in, you know, so
the inmates can have some comfort when
they visit. But we just visit. We sing a
little, but then they say we're getting
too loud, so we have to quit singing.
But we just talk and visit and get to
know some of John's family that we had
not met before. So John and anybody else
can have a soft drink, anything they
want. But one thing I will tell you that
that I think goes unsaid, the the death
squad, the officers that perform it at
Atmore, they do everything in their
power
to make it as dignified.
Anything they could do for John and any
of the 12 or 13 I've been with within
reason they would do to make that last
day as good as they could for the
inmate. People they don't get enough
credit for that. I mean there's certain
rules they can't break but anything they
can do within reason they do it. But
anyway, so we we go and then you you can
tell when the clock starts getting and
we'll have, you know,
usually they'll we'll do some serious
praying and then we we call it circle
up. That's something we would do on our
weekends before we leave. We make a big
circle and and we pray out and are you
familiar with the song surely the
presence
>> surely the presence of the Lord is in
this place. I can feel his mighty power
and his grace.
You know I can hear the brush of angels
wings. I see glory on each face. Surely
the presence of the Lord.
>> They sang that a couple times. They
gathered for a prayer. Then they made
their way to the execution chamber.
We're over here and the Senate family's
over there and John's in the middle and
there's glass and I can see them but I
can't hear them and they can see me and
John's in the middle and um you know and
then he he looks up at me and you know
and he says you know I love you brother
and uh I thank you for everything you
did for me and and you know take care of
my mom and dad. I promised him I would
continue to communicate and follow up
with him. And um and then he says with
the Senate family, I'm sorry I got
involved this situation. I hundred times
I wish I could have taken it back. I was
strung out. I was young and I was stupid
and I hope that you know what happens
today can give you you know some peace.
And um and then when they started you
know it was a lethal injection and he
rolled his hand. that that's sort of a
symbol. We we get to hang with him, but
when we split up, they won't let any
more physical contact when we leave. And
as we go, you know, that was our that
was our deal. It means I love you. So,
that was our sign in Cyros, you know, I
love you, brother. He rolled his hands
up on there and did that. And then, you
know, I watched his uh bottom jaw. I
remember just seeing it start quivering
and it and you know, it was it takes a
lot longer than you think.
Yes, it does take a lot longer than
you'd think.
First, 100 milllers of a sedative. After
the sedative, Alabama's regulations
require that quote, "The team member
positioned at the condemned inmate's
left side will assess the consciousness
of the condemned inmate by applying
graded stimulation as follows. The team
member will begin by saying the
condemned inmate's name. If there's no
response, the team member will gently
stroke the condemned inmate's eyelashes.
If there is again no response, the team
member will then pinch the condemned
inmate's arm. John Parker. John Parker.
Stroke. Stroke. Pinch. Pinch. Then comes
60 ml of roaronium bromide. That's the
muscle relaxant. Then 120 ml of
potassium chloride. That's supposed to
stop the heart. Remember what Tom Perry
said?
>> It was peaceful. He didn't appear to
suffer.
>> Well, yes and no. He didn't appear to
suffer. That's because he was strapped
down to a gurnie and sedated and given a
paralytic, so he couldn't struggle or
cry out even if he wanted to. But of
course, he suffered. His lungs were
burning up from the inside, and he had a
long extended moment of absolutely
excruciating pain. Of
course, his parents break down and they
hug me and then I walk out and then I
basically I have a very good friend. He
kind of takes me and takes care of me
cuz I break down after I talk to the
family. But did that kind of describe it
for you?
>> Mhm. Mhm.
>> It's it's a hard hard day in many ways.
Is this a joyous day up until? Because
you just you see there's goodness
everywhere up until as far as John was
concerned.
You ever seen a picture of John?
>> No, I haven't.
>> Hold on. I've got it. It's funny. I keep
this in my office right by my license.
>> You keep that that that memorial
>> right here. And and I've got
>> next to your license.
>> Yeah. Actually in the frame. I stick it
in the frame and I keep it here. So,
well, this is this is uh
uh you can see me a much younger
version.
>> Yeah.
>> I think it was June of 2010. This is
John's father Pety Parker.
>> Yeah.
>> His mother Joan Parker. That's his
brother Bert and John in the middle. And
that was the day of his execution. The
the the institution took the pictures
for us. That means a lot. They don't
give me three or four pictures and the
entire family wanted me and their family
photograph.
>> I mean that that's why I cherish this.
>> Now Malcolm, I'm trusting you cuz I
don't want anything to degrade or insult
John's memory. So please don't do that.
>> I will not. John um
>> uh Tom Heftlin told me you were okay or
I wouldn't have spoken to you because I
would be heartbroken
>> if something defamatory about John. No,
please don't do that.
>> Yeah. Don't Don't be You should have no
concern. Yeah.
>> And I'm trusting you now, Malcolm, not
to do that to John in his memory.
>> Tom Perry was the one who bothered to
care.
[Music]
If you're wondering why people get so
upset about the death penalty, it's
this. It's that the people who are in
favor of it like to believe that it
represents some great symbolic
manifestation of society's judgment. But
in fact, their method of choice is
something that some guy dreamt up in an
afternoon and no one ever got around to
checking. Symbolic manifestations of
society's judgment should not be dreamt
up on the back of an envelope. And if
you're wondering why we're spending so
much time on this, it's because the
story of the long day of the Elizabeth
Senate case is about to get worse.
Much worse.
[Music]
Next time on Revisionist History. I
think he just got home from work and you
know he called me and he said well mom
can you come? He said the police are
here.
>> Then I went to Atmore which is where
Hullman is. Visited with Kenny that
morning we were still waiting for the
11th Circuit's decision.
>> What is taught either in nursing school
or as an EMT or as a doctor cannot be
lifted into the death chamber. like it's
not the same place. These people are not
patients, you know, they're not
collaborators to you.
It's been a great deal of media
coverage, both local and national, about
what happened in Kenny Smith's execution
chamber.
Much of that coverage has seemingly been
openly sympathetic to Smith and his
cause, even with some going so far as to
advocate for the abolishment of the
death penalty.
[Music]
Revisionist History is produced by Lucy
Sullivan, Ben Daf Hafrey, and Nina Bird
Lawrence. Additional reporting by Ben
Daddaf Hafrey, and Lee Hedgepath. Our
editor is Karen Shukery. Factchecking by
Kate Furby. Our executive producer is
Jacob Smith. Production support from
Luke Lamond. Engineering by Nina Bird
Lawrence. Original scoring by Luis Gera
with Paul Brainard and Jimmy Ba. Sound
design and additional music by Jake
Kski. I'm Malcolm Gladwell.
[Applause]
[Music]
You can get this entire season now adree
by subscribing to Rebigious History on
Pushkin Plus. Sign up on the show page
on Apple Podcasts or at pushkin.fmplus.
Pushkin Plus subscribers can access
adfree episodes, full audiobooks,
exclusive binges, and bonus content for
all Pushkin shows.